Spatial forested example (#53)
aml4td/website: chapters/initial-data-splitting.qmd

If stratification is required, the process becomes more complicated. Often, the outcome data can vary within a subject. To stratify to balance the outcome distribution, we need a way to quantify the outcome per subject. For regression models, the mean of each subject's outcome might be an excellent choice to summarize them. Analogously, the mode of categorical outcomes may suffice as an input into the stratification procedure.  

## Splitting Spatial Data {#sec-spatial-splitting}

> Spatial data are largely about the location of data points. As previously mentioned, the Ames data can be considered spatial since each row of the data set corresponds to a property at a specific location. Spatial data can have _autocorrelation_, with objects being more similar to closer objects than to objects further away. Tobler's First Law of Geography [@bjorholm2008extent] is: 

Reviewer: First sentence feels quite vague.

> "Everything is related to everything else, but near things are more related than distant things."

> Think of an overhead color satellite image of a forest. Different types of trees have different foliage colors. If we focus on the color green, the distribution of "greeness" is not a random pattern of the x/y axes (random distribution would resemble static). In other words, pixels cannot be assumed to be independent of one another. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Think of an overhead color satellite image of a forest. Different types of foliage—or lack thereof—have different colors. If we focus on the color green, the distribution of "greeness" is not a random pattern of the x/y axes (random distribution would resemble static). In other words, pixels cannot be assumed to be independent of one another. 
```

  addProviderTiles(providers$CartoDB.PositronNoLabels) %>%
  addCircles(
    data = forested_labs,
    lng = ~ lon,
    lat = ~ lat,
    color = ~ class_col,
    fillColor = ~ class_col,
    fill = TRUE,
    opacity = .1,
    fillOpacity = 1,
    radius = 1500
  ) %>%
  setView(lng = -120.3945, lat = 47.33047, zoom = 7)
```

How should we split these data? A simple random sample is inadequate; we need to ensure that adjacent/nearby locations are not allocated to the training and testing sets. There are a few ways to compensate for this issue: 

 - Group the data into local areas and iterate by removing one or more group at a time. If there is no rational, objective process for creating groups, use clustering methods or create a regular grid across the data range [@Roberts2017]. 
 - Buffering [@brenning2005spatial;@le2014spatial] is a method that excludes data around a specific data point or group. 
 
We'll use both of these methods below for illustration. @Pohjankukka2017, @lyons2018comparison, @meyer2019importance @karasiak2022spatial, and @mahoney2023assessing have good overviews of the importance of countering spatial autocorrelation and appropriate sampling methods. 

> For our example, we’ll use blocking and buffering to allocate roughly 20% of the data to the testing set. First, the locations were allocated to a 25 x 25 grid of hexagons across the state. After this, a buffer of `r format(80^2, big.mark = ",")` squared map units was created around the hexagon such that outside points within the buffer would be excluded from being used in the training or testing sets. Finally, roughly 20% of the locations were selected for the test set by moving through the space and selecting hexagons sequentially. @fig-forested-split shows the results of this process. 

Reviewer: "Blocking" is not a word that had yet appeared in this subsection. Does this refer to the first bullet point above?

Reviewer: A switch from present and future tenses to past tense happens at "First, ..." and switches back after two paragraphs.
